docs/guide/migrate-from-tsup.md, before:

# Migrate from tsup

[tsup](https://tsup.egoist.dev/) is a powerful and widely-used bundler that shares many similarities with `tsdown`. While `tsup` is built on top of [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), `tsdown` leverages the power of [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs/) to deliver a **faster** and more **powerful** bundling experience.

## Migration Guide

If you're currently using `tsup` and want to migrate to `tsdown`, the process is straightforward thanks to the dedicated `migrate` command:

```bash
npx tsdown-migrate
```

> [!WARNING]
> Please save your changes before migration. The migration process may modify your configuration files, so it's important to ensure all your changes are committed or backed up beforehand.

### Migration Options

The `migrate` command supports the following options to customize the migration process:

- `--cwd <dir>` (or `-c`): Specify the working directory for the migration.
- `--dry-run` (or `-d`): Perform a dry run to preview the migration without making any changes.

With these options, you can easily tailor the migration process to fit your specific project setup.

## Differences from tsup

While `tsdown` aims to be highly compatible with `tsup`, there are some differences to be aware of:

### Default Values

- **`format`**: Defaults to `esm`.
- **`clean`**: Enabled by default and will clean the `outDir` before each build.
- **`dts`**: Automatically enabled if your `package.json` contains a `typings` or `types` field.
- **`target`**: By default, reads from the `engines.node` field in your `package.json` if available.

### Feature Gaps

Some features available in `tsup` are not yet implemented in `tsdown`. If you find an option missing that you need, please [open an issue](https://github.com/rolldown/tsdown/issues) to let us know your requirements.

### New Features in tsdown

`tsdown` also introduces new features not available in `tsup`:

- **`nodeProtocol`**: Control how Node.js built-in module imports are handled:
  - `true`: Add `node:` prefix to built-in modules (e.g., `fs` → `node:fs`)
  - `'strip'`: Remove `node:` prefix from imports (e.g., `node:fs` → `fs`)
  - `false`: Keep imports as-is (default)

Please review your configuration after migration to ensure it matches your expectations.

## Acknowledgements

`tsdown` would not have been possible without the inspiration and contributions of the open-source community. We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to the following:

- **[tsup](https://tsup.egoist.dev/)**: `tsdown` was heavily inspired by `tsup`, and even incorporates parts of its codebase. The simplicity and efficiency of `tsup` served as a guiding light during the development of `tsdown`.
- **[@egoist](https://github.com/egoist)**: The creator of `tsup`, whose work has significantly influenced the JavaScript and TypeScript tooling ecosystem. Thank you for your dedication and contributions to the community.

Commit message:

feat(migrate): add monorepo support (#659)
Co-authored-by: Kevin Deng <sxzz@sxzz.moe>

docs/guide/migrate-from-tsup.md, after:

# Migrate from tsup

[tsup](https://tsup.egoist.dev/) is a powerful and widely-used bundler that shares many similarities with `tsdown`. While `tsup` is built on top of [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/), `tsdown` leverages the power of [Rolldown](https://rolldown.rs/) to deliver a **faster** and more **powerful** bundling experience.

## Migration Guide

If you're currently using `tsup` and want to migrate to `tsdown`, the process is straightforward thanks to the dedicated `migrate` command:

```bash
npx tsdown-migrate
```

For monorepos, you can specify directories using glob patterns:

```bash
npx tsdown-migrate packages/*
```

Or specify multiple directories explicitly:

```bash
npx tsdown-migrate packages/foo packages/bar
```

> [!WARNING]
> Please save your changes before migration. The migration process may modify your configuration files, so it's important to ensure all your changes are committed or backed up beforehand.

> [!TIP]
> The migration tool will automatically install dependencies after migration. Make sure to run the command from within your project directory.

### Migration Options

The `migrate` command supports the following options to customize the migration process:

- `[...dirs]`: Specify directories to migrate. Supports glob patterns (e.g., `packages/*`). Defaults to the current directory if not specified.
- `--dry-run` (or `-d`): Perform a dry run to preview the migration without making any changes.

With these options, you can easily tailor the migration process to fit your specific project setup.

## Differences from tsup

While `tsdown` aims to be highly compatible with `tsup`, there are some differences to be aware of:

### Default Values

- **`format`**: Defaults to `esm`.
- **`clean`**: Enabled by default and will clean the `outDir` before each build.
- **`dts`**: Automatically enabled if your `package.json` contains a `typings` or `types` field.
- **`target`**: By default, reads from the `engines.node` field in your `package.json` if available.

### Feature Gaps

Some features available in `tsup` are not yet implemented in `tsdown`. If you find an option missing that you need, please [open an issue](https://github.com/rolldown/tsdown/issues) to let us know your requirements.

### New Features in tsdown

`tsdown` also introduces new features not available in `tsup`:

- **`nodeProtocol`**: Control how Node.js built-in module imports are handled:
  - `true`: Add `node:` prefix to built-in modules (e.g., `fs` → `node:fs`)
  - `'strip'`: Remove `node:` prefix from imports (e.g., `node:fs` → `fs`)
  - `false`: Keep imports as-is (default)

Please review your configuration after migration to ensure it matches your expectations.

## Acknowledgements

`tsdown` would not have been possible without the inspiration and contributions of the open-source community. We would like to express our heartfelt gratitude to the following:

- **[tsup](https://tsup.egoist.dev/)**: `tsdown` was heavily inspired by `tsup`, and even incorporates parts of its codebase. The simplicity and efficiency of `tsup` served as a guiding light during the development of `tsdown`.
- **[@egoist](https://github.com/egoist)**: The creator of `tsup`, whose work has significantly influenced the JavaScript and TypeScript tooling ecosystem. Thank you for your dedication and contributions to the community.
